added documentation updates for Release v2024.3.0 (#187)
hoppscotch/docs: documentation/features/variables.mdx

---
sidebarTitle: Variables
title: Variables
description: Dynamic placeholders for your API interactions.
---

> Hoppscotch provides you the ability to create and use variable throughout the app. This helps you reuse values throughout Hoppscotch just by invoking the variable name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hoppscotch gives you the ability to create and use variables throughout the app. This helps you reuse values throughout Hoppscotch just by invoking the variable name. 
```

> Hoppscotch considers an objects within an angular brackets as a variable `<<variable>>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hoppscotch considers an object within an angular bracket as a variable `<<variable>>`.
```

## Variable Scopes

> Hoppscotch provides you different variables scopes, allowing you to use different scopes for different contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hoppscotch provides you with different variable scopes, allowing you to use the right scope for the situation.
```

1. Global Variables: can be accessed throughout Hoppscotch and has the broadest scope of all variables. 

> 2. Environment Variables: allow your variables to be scoped to an environment. Environment variables are useful when you have the same set of variables for two environments such as production and staging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Environment Variables: allow your variables to be scoped to an environment. Environment variables are useful when you have the same set of variables for two environments such as production and staging.
```

3. Request Variables: are scoped to just an individual request, request variables are useful when you want to use variables in your URL path or when you want to embed a variable URL.

> The scope of each variable can be identified from the color of the variable name 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scope of each variable can be identified from the color of the variable name :
```
